Improve observability (#834)
elastic/elasticsearch-js: docs/observability.asciidoc

[[observability]]
== Observability

The client does not provide a default logger, but instead it offers an event emitter interfaces to hook into internal events, such as `request` and `response`.

> Correlate those events can be quite hard, especially if your applications has a large codebase with many events happening at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Correlating those events can be quite hard, especially if your applications have a large codebase with many events happening at the same time.
```

To help you with this, the client offers you a correlation id system and other features, let's see them in action.

=== Events
The client is an event emitter, this means that you can listen for its event and add additional logic to your code, without need to change the client internals or your normal usage. +
You can find the events names by access the `events` key of the client.

[source,js]
----
const { events } = require('@elastic/elasticsearch')
console.log(events)
----

The event emitter functionality can be useful if you want to log every request, response and error that is happening during the use of the client.

[source,js]
----
const logger = require('my-logger')()
const { Client } = require('@elastic/elasticsearch')
const client = new Client({ node: 'http://localhost:9200' })

client.on('response', (err, req) => {
  if (err) {
    logger.error(err)
  } else {
    logger.info(req)
  }
})
----

The client emits the following events:
[cols=2*]
|===
|`request`

> a|Emitted before to send the actual request to Elasticsearch.

Author: Yes, I'll add a note about this :)

[source,js]
----
client.on('request', (err, req) => {
  console.log(err, req)
})
----

|`response`
a|Emitted before to send the actual request to Elasticsearch.
[source,js]
----
client.on('response', (err, req) => {
  console.log(err, req)
})
----

|`sniff`
a|Emitted when the clients ends a sniffing request.
[source,js]
----
client.on('sniff', (err, req) => {
  console.log(err, req)
})
----

|`resurrect`
a|Emitted if the client is able to resurrect a dead node.
[source,js]
----
client.on('resurrect', (err, req) => {
  console.log(err, req)
})
----

|===

The values of `req` in `request`, `response` and `sniff` will be:
[source,ts]
----
  body: any;
  statusCode: number | null;
  headers: anyObject | null;
  warnings: string[] | null;
  meta: {
    context: any;
    name: string;

>     request: {

Author: Agree that `req` might not be a good name, I'll use `result`, since is the same used by the API methods.

> what about calling these requestParams, requestOptions, and requestId?

I prefer to have a nested object, since it is more future proof and I can easily extend it in the future.

      params: TransportRequestParams;
      options: TransportRequestOptions;
      id: any;
    };
    connection: Connection;
    attempts: number;
    aborted: boolean;
    sniff?: {
      hosts: any[];
      reason: string;
    };
  };
----

While the `req` value in `resurrect` will be:
[source,ts]
----
export interface ResurrectEvent {
  strategy: string;
  isAlive: boolean;
  connection: Connection;
  name: string;
  request: {
    id: any;
  };
}
----

=== Correlation id

> Correlate events can be quite hard, especially if there are happening many events at the same time, the client offers you an automatic (and configurable) system to help you handle this problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Correlating events can be quite hard, especially if there are many events at the same time. The client offers you an automatic (and configurable) system to help you handle this problem.
```

  const { id } = event.meta.request
  if (err) {
    console.log({ error: err, reqId: id })
  }
})

client.search({
  index: 'my-index',
  body: { foo: 'bar' }
}, (err, result) => {
  if (err) console.log(err)
})
----

By default the id is an incremental integer, but you can easily configure that with the `generateRequestId` option:
[source,js]
----
const { Client } = require('@elastic/elasticsearch')
const client = new Client({
  node: 'http://localhost:9200',
  generateRequestId: function () {
    // your id generation logic
    // must be syncronous
    return 'id'
  }
})
----

You can also specify a custom id per request:
[source,js]
----
client.search({
  index: 'my-index',
  body: { foo: 'bar' }
}, {
  id: 'custom-id'
}, (err, result) => {
  if (err) console.log(err)
})
----

=== Context object
Sometimes, you might need to make some custom data available in your events, you can do that via the `context` option of a request: 
[source,js]
----
const { Client } = require('@elastic/elasticsearch')
const client = new Client({ node: 'http://localhost:9200' })

client.on('request', (err, event) => {
  const { id } = event.meta.request
  const { context } = event.meta
  if (err) {

>     console.log({ error: err, reqId: id, context })

Reviewer: I wonder if providing the winter key would make this example more clear, though they would obviously want to protect that it exists on the context before accessing like I did:

```
client.on('request', (err, event) => {
  const { id } = event.meta.request
  const { winter } = event.meta.context
  if (err) {
    console.log({ error: err, reqId: id, winter })
  }
})
```

Author: Good point!

  }
})

client.on('response', (err, event) => {
  const { id } = event.meta.request
  const { winter } = event.meta.context
  if (err) {
    console.log({ error: err, reqId: id, winter })
  }
})

client.search({
  index: 'my-index',
  body: { foo: 'bar' }
}, {
  context: { winter: 'is coming' }
}, (err, result) => {
  if (err) console.log(err)
})
----

=== Client name
If you are using multiple instances of the client or if you are using multiple child clients _(which is the recommended way to have multiple instances of the client)_, you might need to recognize which client you are using, the `name` options will help you in this regard:
[source,js]
----
const { Client } = require('@elastic/elasticsearch')
const client = new Client({
  node: 'http://localhost:9200',
  name: 'parent-client' // default to 'elasticsearch-js'
})

const child = client.child({

>   name: 'child-client'

Reviewer 2: maybe we should default this to `${parent.name} child`?

Author: Initially, I thought about having an automatic name for every child client, such as `elasticsearch-js-child-${count}`. But other than increasing the internal complexity *(you will need a singleton to make sure to avoid duplicates)*, I think that if a user is interested in this feature, they will give a meaningful name.
